[MUSIC]
Hello again, in this video,
we're creating a splash screen.
That is a screen we will make which,
after implementing a code routine,
will then jump into my other scene here,
our start menu.
So we'll give ourselves a little bit
of a delay, play a sound effect, and
then get into the start menu.
So let's jump in and
get started, okay, as always,
let's start by creating
a new Unity project.
I'm calling mine Glitch Garden, and
make sure you've changed
it to 2D as the template.
It's not a big problem if you don't,
and being a bit of a numpty myself,
I just set it up in 3D
when I created my project.
So while yours is loading in 2D,
hopefully,
I'm gonna show you what to do if
you accidentally set it up in 3D.
It's not a big problem, there's the toggle
up here which changes the view,
you can put it on to 2D.
At any time, you can go have a look at how
it looks in 3D, but got it on 2D there.
Up to Edit and then Project Settings,
and we're looking for Editor.
Over on the right here,
default behavior mode, just from 3D to 2D.
And hen when I go and start a new scene so
File > New Scene, which I'd like for
to do now, is to create a new scene.
And we have our 2D looking scene in here,
and there's no extra light, and the camera
is set up as orthographic instead
of perspective, so that's all good.
Okay, now I'm gonna save the scene,
File > Save Scene As.
We'll put it in our scenes folder,
we're gonna call this the splash screen.
And that is what we'll be creating
shortly, so splash screen.
And I'm just gonna go ahead and delete my
sample scene cuz I don't wanna have that
in there anymore,
I've only got my splash screen.
Excellent, now throughout
this section of the course,
we're using assets from
a place called Glitch.
This was a game, you can see,
2009 to 2012, it's no longer around.
At Glitchthegame.com, we're grabbing
these assets, they're open source.
If you click on the download link,
you can see there's tons of downloads,
all the sprite sheets
is a good one to get.
For now, we are going to, just gonna go
back to the previous screen by hitting
back on my backy button, and
then over here to downloads.
Now if this is no longer around, if for
some reason in the future, they're like,
well, we don't wanna have
this website up anymore.
I've given you all the resources I'm gonna
use in this video and in this section
against this lecture, so no worries if
you can't find this website anymore.
You can see in here, there's a whole bunch
of wallpapery type things we can use,
there's music that we'll use as ringtones,
lots of great stuff.
First of all, I'm gonna go and
get this as my splash screen.
I'll find the 1920 by 1080,
and click on that to download.
Okay, while that's downloading,
I'm gonna have a look at what I'd
like to have as my start menu.
So we're gonna have the start button and
the quit button.
And I think I'm gonna go for this frog
here, download full size as well.
Okay, excellent, so I'm gonna find
the files that have downloaded,
show in folder.
Let's see, we've got the frog, and
my preview image is taking awhile.
What's going on with you, crazy program?
Let me fire up Unity here, and
I will find the assets folder.
Right-click > Create > Folder,
make something in here which
is called images as a folder,
so I've got an images folder.
Open that up, and now I can find, okay,
there's my splash screen that
I'm gonna use, drag that in.
And while I'm here,
I'm gonna drag in the image I'll use for
my start screen, there we go.
And while I'm here as well,
[LAUGH] I'm saying while I'm here a lot.
While I'm here,
I must have that on my mind at the moment.
I'm going to rename, so
right-click > Rename, there we go.
Rename this to splash image, and
also while I'm here, [LAUGH],
I'm gonna stop saying that, I promise.
I'll get a whole bunch of people in
the comments, why is Rick saying while I'm
here over and over, and
I'll rename this to start screen image.
Okay, so we have our splash screen as
a scene that we're in at the moment,
and we have a couple of images,
what to do next?
Well, we need to create ourselves some
way of displaying our splash image.
So up in our hierarchy, right-click,
and we will create while we're here.
[LAUGH] No, I'm just joking,
[LAUGH] we will create a UI and
canvas, right down at the bottom there.
Okay, so we've got a canvas in here,
right-click, UI,
we will throw into here an image.
And the image, we will drag our splash
image, [SOUND] over onto the splash image.
If we double-click on the canvas,
it's big cuz it's saying, this is the UI.
It's gonna fit over whatever
the player can see,
no matter how big we make the world.
And I want to click on my image and
say, within here, preserve aspect and
set native size.
[SOUND] And there we go, it's filling up
my entire canvas, is exactly what I want.
At some point,
we'll change our game camera size, so
what our camera thinks is where
the game is gonna be played.
But that's pretty good for now in terms of
where we think our canvas is going to be.
It's not accurately 1920 by 1080 for
our canvas.
Okay, what are we gonna
do as well in here, well,
we will add a little bit of text.
So I'm going to click on canvas,
right-click > UI > Text, and
drag this up a little bit.
What I want to have in here is, underneath
Glitch, which is where we're getting these
assets from, the Glitch game, we're
gonna call it Garden underneath here.
You can call yours whatever you want,
you can call it Glitch Rick is awesome,
if you have that desire,
it's up to you, you don't have to.
[LAUGH] Making a few jokes today,
okay, and we'll drag that out.
You might look at the font and say,
that font is ridiculous, Rick,
what are you thinking?
Let's go find ourselves
a better font on a website,
let's go to dafont.com,
what sort of font shall we go for today?
Now I haven't thought about this
at all until coming in here,
I'm just gonna search for funky,
and see what comes up with funky.
And then I'm gonna do a Ctrl+F,
type in 100%, and Funky Chunky,
I like the name of it, Funky Muskrat, no.
That's interesting, that looks kinda
similar to what we have already.
Okay, we'll go and grab that one, that
is Funky Junk, and download Funky Junk.
So as always, find whatever font takes
your fancy for your particular game.
I'm going to show that in folder,
gonna extract that here.
So I've got my files, where is it,
Funky Junk, double-click on that.
That should allow me to use
Windows Font Viewer, if I'm on Windows.
If you're on Mac then you'll use
the Windows Mac Font Viewer [LAUGH].
Click on Install, I know that Mac
people love when I make Mac jokes.
Okay, install, that should be
installed on my computer, and
then more importantly than doing that,
is that we wanna drop it into Unity.
So going to create myself
a new folder in assets called,
Create > Folder, called fonts.
Open up fonts, find my windowy thing, and
then drop in Funky Junk into my fonts.
Okay, so now I have it installed on
my computer, and more importantly,
it's sitting within Unity.
So I can go back to my text, and I will
call this, where are we here in our font,
drag over Funky Junk instead of Arial,
[SOUND] and then it changes it.
[LAUGH] And it looks like I kind of
hand scrawled that myself, that's good,
that's the look I'm going for.
Make it nice and big,
change the color to, I don't know,
yellow, green,
gardens are green, aren't they?
There we go, Glitch Garden,
looks like a three-year-old drew it,
that's exactly what I'm going for here.
[LAUGH] Wonderful, this one will change
from text to be called garden text.
And the next one, duplicate,
drag on down, so hit W, drag on down.
Then within the text field here,
we'll type in,
Loading..., change this to loading text.
Okay.
Loading text.
Instead of green we'll make it purple.
There we go.
Glitch Garden loading.
I want to make it a little bit smaller,
cuz we don't want to
make it too overwhelming.
There we go, okay?
Center it roughly in the middle.
Pretty good.
Glitch Garden loading,
made by a three year old i.e.
Rick.
The other thing I wanna do with my loading
screen, so my splash screen,
is have a little bit of a sound effect.
So I'm gonna jump back over
into the Glitch website,
find ringtones,
we'll have a listen to a couple here,
[SOUND] Enable my audio so
you can hear it.
That's a full on song.
Where are we here?
Alert, game loaded.
[SOUND] That sounds pretty good,
doesn't it?
We'll just check one other thing.
Level up kazoo.
[SOUND] [LAUGH] Okay,
that is so awesome, I like it.
I'm gonna use that one,
even though it doesn't quite make sense.
But I like the sound of it so download.
[MUSIC]
Thanks, we get the picture,
where's my download?
Download button just there, okay.
And then again show in folder,
just pop the folder to the side so
I can grab unity, and
then drag the folder back over.
Now we need another folder,
speaking of folders.
Create folder sounds,
double click on sounds.
Back to my window,
drag in level up kazoo or
whatever it is that you chose into here.
So lots of kind of setup fiddly
diddly things in this video.
But there will be some code so be patient.
The code is coming any moment.
How about level up kazoo.
Now a little mini-challenge for you.
I want you to set up so
that the level up kazoo plays once
immediately that this scene loads up.
So there's your mini-challenge.
Jump into that and
hopefully you jumped into that with gusto.
Right click on the hierarchy.
We're going to create an empty.
Just out of habit,
I'm going to reset the, transform
doesn't matter too much at the moment.
I will rename this game object to be load
sound, and then load sound, add component,
the component we need to add here is
an audio source, so we can play it.
The audio source plays and
the audio listener listens for it,
the audio listener is going to be
on our main camera by default.
Play on awake is what will make it play.
If we have loop clicked on it will go
over and over, which we don't want to do.
And turn it down a little bit, because it
seemed like it was a pretty loud piece of
kazoo, and then drag in the level
up kazoo into our audio clip.
Click on save,
because I haven't saved for awhile.
Click on save, I mean control S or command
S I click on play is what I meant to say,
and we should Mute audio is on,
there we go, we'll try that one more time.
If mute audio is on you
won't hear anything at all.
[NOISE] That's amazing.
Love it.
Love it, love it, fantastic.
So we have a load sound, save that up.
Now, we are ready and
raring to create ourselves a start screen.
So, over in our scenes folder, we have our
splash screen, I'm gonna duplicate that.
So Ctrl+D, or Cmd+D,
rename it from splash screen 1,
to start screen,
you can call it screen or scene or level.
These things are all
pretty interchangeable,
but I see them as screens
when they're menus and stuff.
I see them as scenes when there's
a lot of things going on in it.
So that's why I'm calling
it a start screen.
Double click on that so
that we make that we've opened it,
find where we currently have our image.
The image is our Glitch Garden-y thing.
I'm gonna change my image.
From my image folder.
Let's see, I will [SOUND] over here.
From instead of splash image,
I'll click my selector and
choose the start screen image.
Wonderful, [FOREIGN] as we might say.
Set native size has already been clicked,
so that's all pretty good.
The glitch.com interestingly doesn't
take you to these assets, but
I will ignore that for a moment.
Just something to be mindful of if you're
giving out this assets in a game to other
people and they go check it out, they're
like that wasn't what I was expecting.
Okay, so, we have our, whoopsie-do.
We need to grab on our, click on our
garden text, drag it up to the top and
I'm gonna turn this into a button.
So, the text is very easy
to turn into a button.
I'm gonna change the color
of the font first.
Color, there we go.
And we change into a button by
scrolling down, add component.
Do you reckon you know what
the component is that we add?
It is button.
There we go, I gave you a moment
to yell out button at the screen.
Hopefully you were doing
appropriate yelling.
Now that's a button,
and instead of garden,
we wish to call this, well I have
the text in here will be start game.
It's not quite fitting, so
we need to hit our rect tool.
Drag it over a little bit.
There we go.
And actually, you know,
it's probably a bit too big, so, 120.
Again, a lot of these fiddly things I do,
I rush through it because I don't want to
take too much of your time with fiddly
things that I know that
you can be doing yourself.
So if I am going too fast,
apologies for that.
But these are all things that you
already know super duper well.
And our loading we will change to quit,
and also we will add a component,
which will be a button.
And also we will change it to white font,
and I think that size might be okay it's
kind of saying don't quit,
you don't really wanna quit.
Okay.
Start game and quit, we'll tidy
that up a little bit more later on.
But we now have a start scene.
The point here is we have something
to load into from our splash screen.
And this forms the challenge for
what I would like you to do
in this particular video.
Let me just set up my challenge for you.
Okay, and this challenge is to load
the start scene, from the splash scene,
with a little bit of a caveat.
A little bit of extra flavor.
So you create yourself,
here's how to do it,
create yourself a level loader game
object and level loader script.
You know how to do that, so
that should be no problem.
And then from the splash scene,
load the start scene automatically
with a three second delay.
So when you start the game on the splash
screen, it'll say one cat and dog, two cat
and dog, three cat and dog, and then it
will load the start scene straight away.
It could be a four second delay if
your sound goes a little bit longer,
I think I remember my sound was four
seconds, so there is the challenge.
Make sure you set up the build settings,
and if you want a hint,
coroutine is your hint, and you should
be pretty comfortable with those by now.
So jump in, take on that challenge, and
I'll see you back here
when you have nailed it.
Okay, welcome back.
Let's have a look at the scenes.
We want to jump over to our splash screen.
This is where we're gonna
be adding our level loader.
Right click, create empty game object.
We'll call this level loader.
Okay.
Reset the transform out of habit.
It's a good habit to have.
And now we need a script, so
while clicking on level loader
i'm gonna add a component.
I'll call this Level Loader,
capital L, capital L, no spaces,
create script, create and add.
Excellent i'm going to fire that up.
So start Visual Studio,
pop out of the way assets folder,
[LAUGH] I don't know what it's doing here.
Because I want to drag the script into,
I need to create another folder.
Look at all these folders in this video.
So new folder, scripts.
Organizations.
Good, drag level load
into my scripts folder.
Cool.
Over to level load.
Now we're working in loading scene, so
the first thing we need to do is using
unity engine dot scene management.
So we can access the scene management
methods, it's a very useful thing to do.
What do we wanna do,
well we need to give ourselves a concept
of what scene index would currently on.
So if I go over into file, build settings.
This is a step that I nearly
always forget to do and
then we click on ad open scenes
that'll drop in the splash screen.
The sample scene no longer exists,
you can see it's been deleted, and
let's see my other scene is
the start screen, drag that in.
Okay I wonder if I can remove this?
Yep just hit delete and
it gets out of there.
Okay so the splash screen I know
is always going to be index zero.
I'm not going to change that around.
It's always going to be the very, very,
very The first thing that my game shows
in terms of my Unity scenes in the build.
So I know that's going to be 0.
And then after that it's gonna go
straight into the start screen,
which I know it's going to be 1 or
I know it's going to be right after it.
Okay, so we use that information for
good not for evil,
jump back over into our LevelLoad.cs.
I'm gonna start off by creating an integer
which we will call currentSceneIndex.
So we wanna have a way of storing
what scene am I currently on?
And then within our start method,
we need to say what the currentSceneIndex
is when our LevelLoad starts up.
So do that, we'll type currentSceneIndex
= SceneManager.GetActiveScene(),
that's a method, .buildIndex.
So it's getting for us, it's going and
grabbing from the SceneManager,
it's grabbing what is the buildIndex
of whenever this script was called,
that's called on our splash screen,
then it's gonna be zero.
So now it's gonna be zero
which is very handy to have.
And then we want to say what?
Well, I'm gonna say if
the currentSceneIndex ==, so if we type in
== to say if the currentSceneIndex is 0,
then what do we wanna have happen?
Well, if it is 0 then we want to wait for
a few seconds.
Why am I putting in this now?
Well, in the future we're gonna be loading
from the start scene to the next scene, or
from level one to level two, or
two to three, and three to four.
It's only on this very first one,
at this point in time,
that I wanna fix in a certain time delay.
And so, if the currentSceneIndex is 0,
I wanna start a coroutine.
StartCoroutine, what should we call this?
We'll call it WaitForTime,
open close parenthesis, semi colon.
Let's go create our WaitForTime.
So remember with Coroutine,
we need IEnumerator,
IEnumerator is the return type,
we're calling this WaitForTime.
What's within this?
Well, we need to yield, yield return new,
I'm sure you're pros at this by now,
WaitForSeconds, and
we wanna wait for, say, 4 seconds.
But instead of just
hard-coding this in here,
create this as a variable, waitInSeconds,
waitInSeconds, or timeToWait timeToWait.
Okay, that looks pretty good.
timeToWait, semicolon, and now we're
getting the red squiggly line because this
variable doesn't exist,
so up to the very top,
this is a parameter that we can tune so
I'll put it at the very top.
And we will say SerializedField,
what do we need this to be?
We'll make it an integer,
I don't think we need to have it a float,
we'll just have it at whole numbers,
and this is called timeTowWait.
Initialized at 4,
I know I told you, sorry, 4 not f.
I just said let's not do a float and
then I put an f on the end.
And I also said 3, but I'm gonna make
mine 4 cuz I feel that might be the right
amount of time for
the sound effect that I put in there.
Might be a little bit long to watch that
every time, but we'll start off with that.
Okay, so let's have a look at this.
We are getting out index, we are starting
our coroutine, if we're at 0,
WaitForTime, yield.
And then what do we want to have
happen after we've yielded for
x number of seconds?
Then we want to load the next scene,
and the way we do that is let's
create ourselves a little method
that we'll use again in the future.
LoadNextScene, parentheses.
And this will be a method.
We'll make it a public method so
that any other script can say, hey,
I want you to load the next scene.
So public void LoadNextScene.
And what is within here that's gonna
be pretty straightforward, I think.
It will be SceneManager.LoadScene, and
then we wanna say whatever
scene we are currently on,
currentSceneIndex plus what?
Plus 1, currentSceneIndex + 1.
Okay, so I know that was a lot of
me typing and going through that.
But we've created coroutine a few times
now and we've worked through our loading
a few times, so hopefully that
challenge was not too tricky for you.
And that's not too much of me just
typing and you following along.
I'm sure you nailed it and
you're like, Rick, we know all this,
I'm such a champion, I got it already.
Show us whether or not it works.
Okay, back into my splash screen.
Save everything up, click on Play.
You should hear a sound effect.
[MUSIC]
It's probably way too loud.
And then,
[MUSIC]
And it loads, awesome.
So why did it load the sound effect again?
Let's go have a look at that.
It was on the splash screen,
we had the LoadSound, play on awake,
that looks pretty good.
And then over on to my start screen,
I think I had the LoadSound there as well,
I'm gonna take that off.
We don't need the load sound,
what we do need to do
is back over into our splash screen,
the LevelLoader.
I'm gonna create myself a prefabs folder.
Should rename this lecture to
be folders [LAUGH] prefabs.
And within prefabs,
I will drag in my LevelLoader
because we're going to be using
that a bunch more in the future.
Okay, there it is, we have ourselves
a splash screen that loads into our start
menu, we're ready to put
in some more functionality.
Great work, I know this is a long video,
I will see you in the next video.